CORAL Resources Module User Guide
---------------------------------

### About CORAL Resources

 A component of Hesburgh Libraries locally developed ERM, CORAL
 Resources aids in the management of the electronic resource workflow
 from the initial request through the acquisition process and into
 ongoing support and maintenance. CORAL Resources supports the
 completion of these workflow processes with a convenient task-based
 queue in which automated email alerts indicate to staff when new tasks
 are available.

### Component Overview

 CORAL Resources has four major components in the primary navigation at
 the top of each page.

 • Home

 • New Resource

 • My Queue

 • File Import

 • Admin

### Home
========

![](media/image1.png){width="6.5in" height="4.0in"}

Home provides both search and AZ browse access to the resource records.
The *Name (contains)* field searches against resource name, resource
alias, parent resource name and organization name. Multiple fields can
be combined in a single search for more precise searching. Search
results can be exported to a spreadsheet using the excel icon in the
upper right corner. The exported file includes more fields than what are
displayed on the search results page.

New Resource ![](media/image2.png){width="6.5in" height="3.986111111111111in"}


All new resource records are added through this form. The form includes
only select fields which are the most critical for processing new
resource requests. The goal was to provide collection managers with a
simple and easy to use form for submitting new resource requests. The
only required fields are resource name, format and acquisition type.

The *Format* field is meant to indicate the publication medium requested
with the most obvious values being print and electronic. *Acquisition
Type* is primarily meant to indicate the distinction between paid and
free resources. *Resource Type* is optional and provides additional
context to the type of resource being requested. The values listed for
all three of these fields can be edited through the Admin page detailed
later in this user guide.

The form allows the option to either save or submit the information
entered. The submit option will commit the new request and the system
will initiate the workflow for that resource and will send out an email
alert that a new resource has been entered. The save option will save
the information to the user’s *My Queue* page where it can be completed
and submitted at a later time.

Please note that the system does allow duplicate records for the same
resource to be entered. The form will however alert the user that
another record with the same resource name already exists.

### The Resource Record

### Product

\[insert product image here)

The resource record contains seven tabs where the information about the
resource is logically grouped. The first tab, *Product*, contains the
descriptive information such as name, alias, issn, publisher, etc which
identifies and defines the resource.

### Edit product details

**\[insert image here\]**

 The information on the *Product* tab can be edited by following the
 edit product details link or by using the edit icon on the tab. The
 Name, Description, URL, Format and Resource Type fields come from the
 Add New Resource form. The Parent field identifies a related parent
 resource and includes an auto- complete feature populated by existing
 resource records that already exist in the system. An example of a
 possible Parent relationship would be that between ISI Web of Science
 (as the parent) and ISI Proceedings Index. Another example could
 include a package record identified as the parent of a record for an
 individual journal.

The *Product* tab allows for the addition of multiple associated
organizations and aliases. The values for the Organization Role and
Alias Type fields can be customized through the *Admin* page detailed
later in this document. The Organization field includes an auto-complete
feature populated by the organizations which already exist in the
system. A link to the organization’s record in the Organizations Module
will appear in the ‘Helpful Links’ box, shown in the previous figure
above, if the Organizations Module has been installed and the
interoperability enabled. Please see the Technical Documentation and
Install Guide for details on the proper configuration settings to enable
this feature.

The Archived checkbox on the Edit Resource screen will set the record
status as ‘Archived’. This was intended to be used to identify resources
that were no longer available but for which there was value in retaining
a record in CORAL.

### Add new note

\[insert new note image here}

An additional notes feature has been added to the *Product*,
*Acquisitions* and *Access* tab. The note will be visible only on the
tab on which it is added. The Note Type field has been included to
provide context to the note. The values for the Note Type field can be
customized through the *Admin* page.

### Acquisitions

\[insert image here\]

 The Acquisitions tab contains details of the libraries’ acquisition of
 the resource such as order number, cost, fund, license status, etc.

### Edit acquisitions information

**\[insert image here\]**

 The acquisitions information can be edited by using the edit
 acquisitions information link or the matching edit icon. The
 information here is meant to provide context to the local acquisitions
 processes. The acquisition type field is the same as was entered on
 the add new resource form. The initial cost data also comes from the
 add new resource form. The cost type field is intended to distinguish
 between one time and ongoing payments. The values for the cost type
 field can be customized through the *Admin* page. This cost record is
 intended to be used for recording projected initial cost for the
 resource. CORAL Resources does not support the tracking of cost
 payments over time. That will be investigated as a future enhancement.

Purchasing Site is intended to indicate the library or organization
purchasing the resource. The values can be customized through the
*Admin* page. Order number and System Number fields are meant to provide
match points with the ILS. Order Number is intended for the ILS order
number and system number for the ILS bib system number. A link to the
resource record in the libraries’ web OPAC can be dynamically displayed
on the *Acquisitions* tab when a bib system number is entered. See the
technical documentation and install guide for the necessary settings in
the /admin/configuration.ini file to enable this link.

The *Acquisitions* tab also includes the ability to track subscription
periods and alert when the period expires. Enter a valid subscription
end date and then check the ‘Enable Alert’ checkbox in cases where a
subscription expiration alert is desired. The alert settings can be
customized through the *Admin* page. The settings include the ability to
set the email address to which the expiration alert will be sent (note
this is a global setting) and the alert period. For example the alert
can be set to activate on a specific number of days prior to the
subscription end date. In order to implement the alerts feature the file
sendAlerts.php will need to be run as a nightly cron. See the technical
documentation and install guide for details.

### Edit license and status

**\[insert image here\]**

 The *Acquisitions* tab includes information about the relevant
 license. Use the edit license and status link or the matching icon to
 update the license information. The values for the Licensing Status
 field can be customized through the Admin page. Changes to the
 Licensing Status field are record in the History section. It is also
 possible through the Edit License window to associate the resource
 with all relevant license records in the Licensing Module. The License
 Record field includes an auto-complete feature that is populated by
 the names of all license records in the Licensing Module. See the
 technical documentation and install guide for the necessary settings
 in the /admin/configuration.ini file to enable this functionality. A
 link to each associated license is added to the Helpful Links section
 of the resource record for quick navigation between modules.

### Access

\[insert image here\]

The *Access* tab includes the information about how the resource is
accessed including things such as IP versus username/password
authentication, simultaneous user limits, authorized sites, etc. The
access information can be edited by using the edit access information
link or the matching edit icon.

### Edit access information

**\[insert image here\]**

 The values for all fields on the *Access* tab except for username and
 password can be customized through the Admin page. The Authorized Site
 field is intended to indicate the sites or libraries which are
 permitted to use the resource. Administering Site is intended to
 indicate the site or library which is responsible for managing the
 access. The remaining fields provide the technical details of the
 access.

 Authentication Type is intended to indicate how the resource is
 authenticated, such as IP or user/password login. Access Method is
 intended to indicate where the resource is accessed. This field was
 primarily added to identify resources that were hosted locally,
 perhaps on a citrix server or in an institutional digital repository,
 rather than on the publisher or provider’s website. Storage Location
 is intended for resources that have a physical component such as a CD
 or hard-drive backup to indicate where the resource is held.

 The Username and Password fields on the *Access* tab are intended for
 use when the resource is accessed by patrons via a shared username and
 password login. This is not the login information used for resource
 administration. Administrative logins are to be stored on the
 *Accounts* tab.

### Cataloging

 \[insert image here\]

 The *Cataloging* tab includes data and workflow information related to
 cataloging the resource, including things such as the URL of where the
 cataloging records are coming from, cataloging type, cataloging
 status, and the number of records available and loaded. The cataloging
 information can be edited by using the edit cataloging details link or
 the matching edit icon.

### Edit Cataloging Details

 The Cataloging Status and Cataloging Type fields can be customized
 through the Admin page. The Identifier is intended for \[I have no
 idea\]. The Source URL is intended to be the source of the catalog
 records used. The Cataloging Status is intended to identify the
 current status of the cataloging work. Values might include:
 Completed, Ongoing, and Rejected. The Cataloging Type is intended to
 indicate the cataloging approach. Values might include: Batch, Manual,
 and MARCit. Checking the OCLC Holdings checkbox indicates that the
 resource is made available in OCLC \[not sure??\]

### Contacts

\[insert contacts image here\]

The *Contacts* tab is the same as is found on an organization record in
the Organizations Module. It is intended as a directory of contact
information for publishers, vendors, etc. Contacts can be added directly
to the resource record using the add contact link or they can be
inherited from the Organizations Module, as in the figure above. When an
organization is associated with the resource on the *Product* tab all
contacts that exist for that specific organization will be inherited and
displayed here on the *Contacts* tab. As with Organizations, the
Resources Module includes a Contact Role field for each contact
(support, invoicing, etc). The values for Contact Role can be edited
through the *Admin* page.

### Account

\[insert image here\]

The *Accounts* tab is the same as is found on an organization record in
the Organizations Module. It is intended to store the login credentials
used for administrative tasks such as registering ip addresses,
downloading usage statistics, and other administration tasks. Accounts
can be added directly to the resource record using the add new account
link or they can be inherited from the Organizations Module, as in the
figure above. When an organization is associated with the resource on
the *Product* tab all accounts that exist for that specific organization
will be inherited and displayed here on the *Accounts* tab. As with
Organizations, the Resources Module includes a Login Type field. The
values for Login Type can be edited through the *Admin* page.

### Attachments

\[insert image here\]

Additional documents relevant to the resource can be uploaded and made
available through the *Attachments* tab. The figure above shows a price
quote which was received from the publisher. The arrow to the right of
the attachment name ‘American Politics Research Price Quote’ opens the
file. Multiple attachments are grouped and sorted by attachment type.

 New attachments are added using the add new attachment link. The Name
 field is intended to be a descriptive name for the attachment. The
 Details field allows for any additional information that further
 explains the attachment. The attachment Type field (email, title list,
 etc) provides context and allows for a way to group the attachments.
 The values for attachment Type can be edited through the *Admin* page.

### Routing

\[insert image here\]

The *Routing* tab shows the workflow through which the resource needs to
follow. The workflow and routing rules can be customized through the
*Admin* page. That process is described later on in this document.

The figure above shows a sample workflow. The first column ‘Step’ is the
name of the task which needs to be performed. The second column ‘Group’
identifies the group responsible for the task. Individuals are assigned
to these groups through the *Admin* page. The ‘Start Date’ identifies
the date at which the task became active. An email is sent to the
assigned group when the task becomes active alerting the group members
that they now have a task to perform. The Order Processing task has no

 start date listed in the figure above because it has not yet become
 active. In this example the Order Processing task will not become
 active until after the Licensing task is completed. The last column
 ‘Complete’ will identify the date the task was completed and the
 person who completed the task. Clicking the ‘mark complete’ link will
 mark the task as complete.

There are two additional steps which happen as part of each workflow
that are not identified as tasks on the *Routing* tab. An email alert is
sent out by the system when a new record is added. The email is sent to
a master email address that is specified in a configuration file
(configuration.ini). The variable which sets the email address is named
‘feedbackEmailAddress’. See the technical documentation and installation
guide for instructions on editing the configuration file. An email alert
is also sent out to this same address when all of the workflow steps
have been marked as complete. The text of the email alerts is controlled
through the use of template files. The templates exist in the
/admin/emails/ directory. See the technical documentation and
installation guide for more information on editing the email templates.

The *Routing* tab includes two additional features displayed as links on
the bottom of the page as seen in the figure above. The ‘restart
workflow’ link allows anyone with admin privilege to restart the entire
workflow process. The ‘mark entire workflow complete’ link will mark the
entire workflow as complete even if there are unfinished tasks. This
feature is intended to be used in cases where the resource does not need
to go through a workflow, as in cases where the record is added to the
system for record keeping purposes only.

### My Queue

\[insert my queue image here\]

The *My Queue* page shows the user their recent activity and their
outstanding tasks. The page is divided into three tabs; Saved Requests,
Outstanding Tasks, and Submitted Requests. The *Saved Requests* tab
displays new resource records which the user has saved to their queue
but not yet submitted. The *Submitted Requests* tab displays the user’s
recently submitted records which are still in process. Once the
resource’s workflow is complete the record is automatically removed from
this tab.

The *Outstanding Tasks* tab, as shown in the figure above, displays the
resources for which the user has an active workflow task which has not
yet been completed. Clicking on the resource name or ID number will open
the full resource record. Resources are assigned to a user’s queue based
on their association with a workflow group. Resources are removed from
the user’s queue once the outstanding workflow task on the resource’s
*Routing* tab is marked as complete.

### Admin

\[insert admin image here\]

The *Admin* page is available only to users with admin privileges. It is
the page through which field values are customized and through which
user privilege and access is set.

### Edit User

\[insert edit user here\]

The first tab on the page is for editing user accounts. There are three
privilege levels for the Resources Module; add/edit, view only, and
admin. View only is the default privilege for all users who do not have
an existing user entry granting them additional privileges. New with the
Resources Module is the addition of the ‘View Accounts’ setting. The
*Accounts* tab on the resource record may contain sensitive login
credentials that only a select few users need to see. Checking the ‘View
Accounts’ box on

 the edit user form will allow the user to see the *Accounts* tab, for
 all other users the *Accounts* tab will be hidden.

### Workflow / User Group

\[insert workflow/user group here\]

The *Workflow / User Group* tab contains the settings which control the
workflow routing features. The Resources Module allows for the creation
of multiple workflow rules based on resource type. The figure above
shows that a workflow has been created for all resources where the
Acquisition Type is ‘Paid’ and the Resource Format is ‘electronic’. In
this way an alternate workflow could be created for all Free resources
that would be different than the workflow for Paid resources. New
workflows are added using the add workflow link.

### Edit workflow

 \[insert edit workflow image here\]

 The above figure shows the form through which workflows are created
 and edited. Here again the workflow being edited is for resources
 where the Acquisitions Type is ‘Paid’ and the Format is ‘Electronic’.
 These two fields are required and as such it is required that the
 values for these fields be defined before creating new workflows. The
 Resource Type field is optional but when used allows for more granular
 workflows.

The Workflow Steps section allows for the addition of as many steps (or
tasks as this document also calls them) as desired. Enter step name, the
group assigned to the step and the parent step when appropriate. Then
click the ‘Add’ button to add the step to the workflow. Assigning a
group to each step is required and as such it is necessary to create the
groups before creating workflows.

The blue arrows on the left side of the form determine the display order
in which the workflow steps will appear on the *Routing* tab. The arrows
do not determine the order in which the steps occur in the workflow.
That order is determined by the Parent Step. Workflow steps that have no
parent step assigned will become active as soon as the new record is
submitted. Workflow steps that have an assigned parent step will become
active once the parent step is marked as complete.

### Edit user group

\[insert edit user group image here\]

Each step or task in a workflow must be assigned to a user group. Enter
a group name and a group email address. An email alert will be sent to
this address when a new workflow step assigned to the group becomes
active. Users that are assigned to the group will then have the
in-process resource appear on the *Outstanding Tasks* tabs of their My
Queue pages.

### Other Admin Settings

\[insert other admin settings here\]

There are many other fields which can be customized through the *Admin*
page. Select the field you wish to edit in the left hand column and then
follow the ‘add new’ links or the edit and delete icons to customize the
field values. The fields have each been described in context earlier in
this document. There is however an additional setting managed here on
the *Admin* page which needs to be described in more detail; Alert
Settings.

### Alert settings

\[insert alert settings here\]

These alert settings determine the functionality of the alert feature
associated with the subscription period end date on the *Acquisitions*
tab of the resource record. Enter the email address to which the alert
should be sent when the subscription period for a resource comes to a
close. Then enter the number of days prior to expiration that you wish
the email alert to be sent. For example, entering 30, 60, 90 days would
result in the system sending an alert 90 days prior to the subscription
end date, 60 days prior and 30 days prior. The system will also send an
alert on the exact day of the subscription end date.
